Client Side Validations using tag helpers.
# How-To:
#### Data annotations on model property
First establish data annotations on your models properties. 
see: [[Model Validations]].
#### asp-for
Then Implement asp-for tag helpers on your inputs. 
see: [[Input and label tag helpers]].

So essentially, what is happening at this point is the **model validation attributes** is converted by asp-for into **html validation attributes** and is implemented on your input tag, or it can also work on any tag that accepts input. see: [[Input and label tag helpers]] to understand.
#### Import jQuery Validation scripts
Now, in order to enforce the html validation attributes generated by asp-for, we will use jQuery.
Three jQuery files you need to import:
1. jquery.min.js
2. jquery.validate.min.js
3. jquery.validate.unobtrusive.min.js
**Must be loaded in that order**
see: [[where to put js script in html]] if you forgot, the use [[Section Layout Views]] to only use the js files on this specific page.

Essentially all model validation attributes set from the model property will now be implemented in the frontend. No need to set it manually.
jQuery will automatically block any client request and will automatically show any validation messages(if there are any) or point the user to the needed validation.
#### Validation Messages
So far the validation works perfectly, only one thing is missing, and that is the validation warnings to be shown to the user.
all you have to do is add:
```html
<div asp-validation-for="model-property">Error message will show here</div>
```
will automatically generate the value of that tag into the validation error message.

You can also generate all the validation warnings as a bulleted list incase you want all the warnings in a certain space instead of near the input box. Just use `asp-validation-summary="All"`:
```html
<div asp-validation-summary="All">Error message will show here</div>
```
>[!tip]
>In case you are using cdn to import jquery, see: [[Script tag helpers]]

might need to add to this note, haven't done custom error messaged yet. see https://www.udemy.com/course/asp-net-core-true-ultimate-guide-real-project/learn/lecture/34524900#questions
##### There is also `ModelOnly`
```html
<div asp-validation-summary="ModelOnly">Error message will show here</div>
```
essentially it will show errors in the model only excluding property errors.
#### What if you want the label to change in design if there's an error on the input?

```html
@model MyModel

<style>
    .error-label {
        color: red;
    }
    %% of course you dont have to write the css class here, just a sample %%
</style>

<form asp-action="Index" method="post">
    <div class="form-group">
        <label asp-for="MyField" class="control-label @(ViewData.ModelState["MyField"]?.Errors.Count > 0 ? "error-label" : "")"></label>
        <input asp-for="MyField" class="form-control" />
        <!-- Optionally keep this line if you want to include validation messages -->
        <!-- <span asp-validation-for="MyField" class="text-danger"></span> -->
    </div>
    <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Submit</button>
</form>

@section Scripts {
    @{await Html.RenderPartialAsync("_ValidationScriptsPartial");}
}
```